# Establishing Developer Mindset: Project Submission

## Letter to My Future Self

Hi Future David,

You're off and running with the Nanodegree to build a solid set of skills 
in web development. That's great! Don't lose sight of the fact that you've 
taken on a big challenge. It isn't supposed to be easy - learning new 
things is going to feel uncomfortable at times, is going to involve 
challenges and feeling uncertain about how you'll get things done. That's 
the whole point of attempting things you don't already know how to do.

When the difficult learning problems and the feeling of being lost comes 
up, it's important to remember that you can adopt a mindset and make use of 
a set of problem-solving skills that will help to get you through it.

Take the time to make sure your mindset is in the right frame for learning 
and problem-solving:

- Interpret the situation correctly - you're facing a situation where 
there's a difficult problem and you need to work out how you can proceed to 
solve it, it's not a case of you not being capable of dealing with the 
situation.

- Look for ways to break the problem down into pieces or steps, then be 
prepared to work at dealing with each one of the smaller parts.

- Remember that you've mastered skills in a lot of different areas before 
and have strong general capacity to analyse issues and get to grips with 
new challenges.

Use the skills, strategies and resources you have available to work through 
the problem:

- Give yourself the space to solve the problem - take breaks, spend some 
time reading more broadly about the issues or even sleep on it so that 
you're not just letting the sense of pressure and failure build, and you're 
giving your mind the opportunity to work through the problem.

- Seek out information that can help - use sites like Stack Overflow or 
search for blog posts and articles that relate to the issue you're dealing 
with.

- Try writing/journalling about the problem as a way of organising your 
thoughts and bringing together a plan about how you can try to proceed.

- Connect with the community of people involved in this course and seek out 
collaboration and support.

You've done courses - both years-long degrees and intensive training 
workshops - before, and those learning and problem-solving skills and 
strategies are going to be just as useful in this course. Keep your head 
down and go for it.

Cheers,

David From the Past

## Goals as a Developer

My fundamental goal in taking this Nanodegree is to develop a strong sense 
of competence in web development. I have some experience with computer 
programming going all the way back to childhood BASIC programming on 
Commodore computers, plus some paid and hobby project work on various small 
projects across a range of languages. But I've never formally learned the 
full set of skills needed to feel like I could take on a project with 
anything beyond a very narrow scope, and I would need to learn or fudge my 
way through a range of tasks (testing, deployment, etc.) as part of the 
process.

Because I've just come to the end of the work I was involved in for the 
past 4 years, I'm in a position to consider new career directions, and the 
possibility of some sort of role in the digital sector has opened up in my 
mind as having appeal. If I come out of this learning experience feeling 
like I have a strong foundation to grow into a web developer then I'll look 
seriously at that as a direction for my future career.